# Kenyan Employment Data Visualization Dashboard

## Overview
This project is a Streamlit application that provides an interactive dashboard for visualizing employment data in Kenya. The dashboard allows users to explore various employment-related metrics such as unemployment rates, total employed populations, and sector-wise employment trends.

## Features
- **Interactive Visualizations**: Users can select from multiple visualization options to analyze the data.
- **Data Insights**: The dashboard presents key insights into the Kenyan labor market, segmented by age group and sex.
- **Dynamic Filtering**: Users can filter data based on their selections to view specific trends and statistics.

## Technologies Used
- **Streamlit**: For building the web application interface.
- **Plotly**: For creating interactive visualizations.
- **Pandas**: For data manipulation and analysis.

## Dataset
The dataset used in this project contains various employment metrics for Kenya, including:
- Population by age group and sex
- Unemployment rates
- Total employed and unemployed populations
- Employment distribution across different sectors

The dataset can be found at the following URL:
[Dataset CSV](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FazeJ99/Employment-trends-Analysis-Dashboard/refs/heads/main/dataset.csv)

### Sample Data Structure
```plaintext
name,age_group,sex,year,population,ILO_inactive_share,total_inactive_population,ILO_unemployed_rate,total_unemployed_population,total_employed_population,Agriculture,...
Kenya,15-24,female,2015,4742700.0,55.928,... 
Kenya,15-24,male,2015,4769000.0,53.436,...

Installation
To run this application locally, follow these steps:
Clone this repository:
bash
git clone https://github.com/FazeJ99/Employment-trends-Analysis-Dashboard.git
cd repository-name

Install the requirements.txt file:
bash
pip install -r requirements.txt

Run the Streamlit application:
bash
streamlit run app.py

Usage
Open your web browser and navigate to http://localhost:8501.

Use the sidebar to select different visualizations.
Explore the insights generated by the selected visualizations.

Visualizations Available

1. Unemployment Rate Over Time by Sex and Age Group
2. Total Employed Population by Age Group across the employed
3. Population Pyramid of the Total Population by Age Group and Sex
4. Sector-Wise Employment Over Time
5. Inactive Population vs Unemployed Population Over Time
6. Distribution of Unemployed Population by Age Group
7. Employment Distribution Across Sectors
8. Distribution of Unemployment Rate
9. Unemployment Rate by Age Group

Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a pull request or open an issue for any enhancements or bug fixes.
License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.
